Update 20.treatments.md (#112)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/20.treatments.md

#### Neutralizing Antibody Approach 1

Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) have revolutionized the way we treat human diseases.

> As a result, they have become one of the best-selling drugs in the pharmaceutical market in recent years [@doi: 10.1186/s12929-019-0592-z].

Author: You are correct! That was me being a non-native speaker

This section discusses current efforts in developing neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 and reflects the work that has been done for the related species SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV.

Coronaviruses use trimeric spike (S) glycoproteins on their surface to bind to host cell receptors, such as ACE2, allowing for cell entry [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.052; 10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.058].
Each S glycoprotein protomer is comprised of an S1 domain also called the receptor binding domain (RBD), and an S2 domain.
The S1 domain binds to host cell receptors while the S2 domain facilitates the fusion between the viral envelope and host cell membranes [@doi:10.1517/14712590902763755].
Although targeting of the host cell receptor ACE2 shows efficacy in inhibiting SARS-CoV-2 infection [@doi:10.1038/nature02145], given the physiological relevance of ACE2 [@doi:10.1016/S1050-1738(02)00233-5], it would be favorable to target virus-specific structures rather than host receptors.
This forms the rationale of developing neutralizing antibodies against the S glycoprotein, disrupting its interaction with ACE2 and other receptors and thereby inhibiting viral entry.

> During the first SARS epidemic in 2002, nAbs have been found in SARS-CoV infected patients [@doi10.1111/j.1469-0691.2004.01009.x;@doi:10.1086/423286].

Author: I defined it in line 100

### Biological Drugs for COVID-19

#### Neutralizing Antibodies

Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) have revolutionized the way we treat human diseases. 
As a result, they have become some of the best-selling drugs in the pharmaceutical market in recent years [@doi: 10.1186/s12929-019-0592-z].
There are currently 79 FDA approved mAbs on the market including antibodies for viral infections (e.g. Ibalizumab for HIV and Palivizumab for RSV) [@doi:10.1186/s12929-019-0592-z; @doi:10.1146/annurev-immunol-032712-095916].

> Although vaccines remain the most important way to treat viral infections, their development process is long and they fail to provide immediate prophylactic protection or treat ongoing infections [@doi:10.3390/v10120680].

Reviewer: Hey @nilswellhausen! Great to work with you. This is really good. I will review the section and make some suggestions. The first i this line. Do you meant to say vaccines will treat and prevent? It seems like it should be prevent when referring to prophylaxis. I will let you clarify.

Reviewer 2: I'm here and happy to help! Let me know what I can do :)

Author: Yes maybe changing treat to prevent would be better! I don't know how to change things either at this point so its all up to @rando2 haha

Interestingly, the patient isolated antibodies did not cross-react with RBD’s from SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, although cross-reactivity to the trimeric spike proteins of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV was observed.
This suggests that the RBD’s between the three coronavirus species are immunologically distinct and that the isolated nAbs targeting the RBD of SARS-CoV-2 is species specific.
While specificity is desirable, it also poses the question of whether these antibodies are more susceptible to viral escape mechanisms.
Viral escape is a common resistance mechanism to nAbs therapy due to selective pressure from neutralizing antibodies [@doi:10.2217/imt.15.33; @doi:10.1126/science.1213256].
For HIV, broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) targeting the CD4 binding site (CD4bs) show greater neutralization breadth than monoclonal antibodies, which target only specific HIV strains [@doi:10.1016/j.molmed.2019.01.007].
For MERS-CoV, a combination of multiple neutralizing antibodies targeting different antigenic sites prevented neutralization escape [@doi:10.1128/JVI.02002-17].

> They found that the different antibody isolates did not target the same epitopes, suggesting that using them in combination might produce a synergistic effect that prevents viral escape [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.21.990770].

Reviewer: on "They found that..."

Maybe say "It was determined that the...

Author: I agree. Thank you!

It was also demonstrated that binding affinity of the antibodies does not reflect their capability to compete with ACE2 binding.
Furthermore, no conclusions about correlations between the severity of disease and the ability to produce neutralizing antibodies can be drawn at this point.
Rather, higher neutralizing antibody titers were more frequently found in patients with severe disease.

> Correspondingly, another group showed that higher levels of anti-spike IgG were observed in patients that deceased from infection compared to patient that recovered [@doi:10.1172/jci.insight.123158].

Reviewer: Correspondingly,  higher levels of anti-spike IgG were observed in patients that deceased from infection compared to patient that recovered [@doi:10.1172/jci.insight.123158].

Reviewer: Sorry I have no Idea how to edit like @rando2 haha

Reviewer 2: I put together a guide per @nilswellhausen suggestion! https://github.com/greenelab/covid19-review/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#the-how-to-of-review

###### Spike (S) Neutralizing Antibody Summary 

Results from the SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV epidemics can provide valuable lessons for the design of neutralizing antibodies for the current outbreak.

> The findings for SARS-CoV and MERS can aid in identifying which structures constitute good targets for nAbs, despite the fact that the RBD appears to be distinct between the three coronavirus species.

Reviewer: constitute suitable targets for nAbs

This section discusses current efforts in developing neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 and how expertise gained from previous approaches for MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV may benefit antibody development.

##### Spike (S) Neutralizing Antibody

During the first SARS epidemic in 2002, nAbs have been found in SARS-CoV infected patients [@doi10.1111/j.1469-0691.2004.01009.x;@doi:10.1086/423286].
Several studies following up on these findings identified various S glycoprotein epitopes as the major targets of neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV [@doi:10.1517/14712590902763755].
The passive transfer of immune serum containing nAbs from SARS-CoV infected mice resulted in protection of naïve mice from viral lower respiratory tract infection upon intranasal challenge [@doi10.1128/jvi.78.7.3572-3577.2004].
Similarly, a meta-analysis suggested that administration of plasma from recovered SARS-CoV patients reduced mortality upon SARS-CoV infection [@doi:10.1093/infdis/jiu396]. 

Similar results have been observed for MERS-CoV infections, which emerged as the second coronavirus-related epidemic.

> Neutralizing antibodies have been identified against various epitopes of the RBD of the S glycoprotein [@doi:10.1073/pnas.1402074111; 10.1128/JVI.00912-14].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Neutralizing antibodies have been identified against various epitopes of the RBD of the S glycoprotein [@doi:10.1073/pnas.1402074111; 10.1128/JVI.00912-14].
```
```suggestion
Neutralizing antibodies have been identified against various epitopes of the RBD of the S glycoprotein [@doi:10.1073/pnas.1402074111; doi:10.1128/JVI.00912-14].
```

###### Spike (S) Neutralizing Antibody Anticipated Mechanisms

> Coronaviruses use trimeric spike (S) glycoproteins on their surface to bind to host cell receptors, such as ACE2, allowing for cell entry [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.052; 10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.058].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Coronaviruses use trimeric spike (S) glycoproteins on their surface to bind to host cell receptors, such as ACE2, allowing for cell entry [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.052; doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.058].
```

Each S glycoprotein protomer is comprised of an S1 domain also called the receptor binding domain (RBD), and an S2 domain.
The S1 domain binds to host cell receptors while the S2 domain facilitates the fusion between the viral envelope and host cell membranes [@doi:10.1517/14712590902763755].
Although targeting of the host cell receptor ACE2 shows efficacy in inhibiting SARS-CoV-2 infection [@doi:10.1038/nature02145], given the physiological relevance of ACE2 [@doi:10.1016/S1050-1738(02)00233-5], it would be favorable to target virus-specific structures rather than host receptors.
This forms the rationale of developing neutralizing antibodies against the S glycoprotein, disrupting its interaction with ACE2 and other receptors and thereby inhibiting viral entry.

###### Spike (S) Neutralizing Antibody Current Evidence

> The first human neutralizing antibody against SARS-CoV-2 targeting the trimeric spike (S) glycoproteins has been developed using hybridoma technology [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.11.987958].

Author: Yeah thats fine. Maybe it is important to incorporate that each B-cell produces a single antibody clone (monoclonal)

> The 47D11 clone was able to cross-neutralize SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV2 by a mechanism that is different from receptor binding interference.

Author: I agree! I think line 120 might be a good place to insert the term receptor binding interference. That way we can leave this sentence as it is and add "from the strategy of receptor binding interference described above" here.

So Line 120 would read like this then: 
Virus-specific neutralizing antibodies commonly target viral surface glycoproteins or host structures, thereby inhibiting viral entry through receptor binding intereference [@doi:10.3389/fmicb.2017.02323; @doi:10.1080/21645515.2017.1337614].

The exact mechanism of how this clone neutralizes SARS-CoV-2 and inhibits infection in vitro remains unknown, but a potential mechanism might be antibody induced destabilization of the membrane prefusion structure[@doi:10.1101/2020.03.11.987958;@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2018.12.028].
The ability of this antibody to prevent infection at a feasible dose needs to be validated in vivo, especially since in vitro neutralization effects have been shown to not be reflective of in vivo efficacy [@doi:10.1128/JVI.01603-17].

> Only a week later, a different group reported the isolation of multiple nAbs targeting the RBD of the S glycoprotein from COVID-19 patients [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.21.990770].

Author: The difference is that the first group immunized transgenic mice and isolated b cell clones to make hybridomas whereas this group isolated antibodies from patients. The assays are pretty similar but the way how they got the antibody is different. That's why I tried to incorporate the method they used for isolation.

Interestingly, the patient isolated antibodies did not cross-react with RBD’s from SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, although cross-reactivity to the trimeric spike proteins of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV was observed.
This suggests that the RBD’s between the three coronavirus species are immunologically distinct and that the isolated nAbs targeting the RBD of SARS-CoV-2 is species specific.

> While specificity is desirable, it also poses the question of whether these antibodies are more susceptible to viral escape mechanisms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While this specificity is desirable, it also raises the question of whether these antibodies are more susceptible to viral escape mechanisms.
```

> Viral escape is a common resistance mechanism to nAbs therapy due to selective pressure from neutralizing antibpdies [@doi:10.2217/imt.15.33; 10.1126/science.1213256].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Viral escape is a common resistance mechanism to nAbs therapy due to selective pressure from neutralizing antibodies [@doi:10.2217/imt.15.33; 10.1126/science.1213256].
```

> For HIV, broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) targeting the CD4bs have showed greater neutralization breadth than normal monoclonal antibodies [@doi:10.1016/j.molmed.2019.01.007].

Reviewer 2: Would it be possible to contextualize CD4bs here? The concept isn't introduced that I can find above. This is my best guess at how to rearrange it to guide the reader a little more (but please use your expertise to fix my attempts at explanation!)
```suggestion
For HIV, broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) targeting the CD4 binding site (CD4bs) show greater neutralization breadth than monoclonal antibodies, which target only specific HIV strains [@doi:10.1016/j.molmed.2019.01.007].
```

Author: I agree with you!

> For MERS-CoV, a combination of multiple neutralizing antibodies targeting different antigenic sites were able to avoid neutralization escape [@doi:10.1128/JVI.02002-17].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For MERS-CoV, a combination of multiple neutralizing antibodies targeting different antigenic sites prevented neutralization escape [@doi:10.1128/JVI.02002-17].
```
"Avoid" sounds a little weird to me (it feels like it's implying the drugs have agency I guess?), so I'm suggesting a phrase they use in the paper (they say "combining MAbs targeting distinct epitopes prevented viral neutralization escape from RBD-directed MAbs.")

> On that note, they found that different antibody isolates did not target the same epitopes, suggesting that they could be used in combination for a synergistic effect and to avoid viral escape [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.21.990770].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On that note, they found that different antibody isolates did not target the same epitopes, suggesting that they could be used in combination for a synergistic effect and to avoid viral escape [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.21.990770].
```
```suggestion
They found that the different antibody isolates did not target the same epitopes, suggesting that using them in combination produced a synergistic effect that prevented viral escape [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.21.990770].
```

Author: They have not shown that combination has a synergistic effect and that it prevents viral escape. They only showed that the isolates target different epitopes which would imply that but the experiment has not been done yet. That's why I tried to phrase it more vague.

A good compromise might be:
They found that the different antibody isolates did not target the same epitopes, suggesting that using them in combination might produce a synergistic effect that prevents viral escape [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.21.990770].

Reviewer 2: That sounds great to me! Updating my suggestion to match your text.

> It was also demonstrated that binding affinity of the antibodies does not reflect their capability to compete with ACE2 binding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It was also demonstrated that the binding affinity of the antibodies did not reflect their capability to compete with ACE2 binding.
```
If you could add a little context for why this is important, I think it would help readers follow your argument more easily!

Author: Suggestion:
It was also demonstrated that the binding affinity of the antibodies to the RBD did not reflect their capability to compete with ACE2 binding.
The ability to outcompete ACE2 binding largely determined antibody potency to neutralize SARS-CoV-2 and therefore might be a better readout for selecting the most potent antibodies.

> Furthermore, it appeared that no conclusion about correlations between the severity of disease and the ability to produce neutralizing antibodies can be drawn at this point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, no conclusions about correlations between the severity of disease and the ability to produce neutralizing antibodies can be drawn at this point.
```

### Biological Drugs for COVID-19

#### Neutralizing Antibodies

Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) have revolutionized the way we treat human diseases. 
As a result, they have become some of the best-selling drugs in the pharmaceutical market in recent years [@doi: 10.1186/s12929-019-0592-z].
There are currently 79 FDA approved mAbs on the market including antibodies for viral infections (e.g. Ibalizumab for HIV and Palivizumab for RSV) [@doi:10.1186/s12929-019-0592-z; @doi:10.1146/annurev-immunol-032712-095916].
Although vaccines remain the most important way to prevent viral infections, their development process is long and they fail to provide immediate prophylactic protection or treat ongoing infections [@doi:10.3390/v10120680].
For that reason, neutralizing antibodies have emerged to address these shortcomings.

> Virus-specific neutralizing antibodies commonly target viral surface glycoproteins or host structures, thereby inhibiting viral entry [@doi:10.3389/fmicb.2017.02323; @doi:10.1080/21645515.2017.1337614].

Author: ```suggestion
Virus-specific neutralizing antibodies commonly target viral surface glycoproteins or host structures, thereby inhibiting viral entry through receptor binding intereference [@doi:10.3389/fmicb.2017.02323; @doi:10.1080/21645515.2017.1337614].
```

###### Spike (S) Neutralizing Antibody Current Evidence

The first human neutralizing antibody against SARS-CoV-2 targeting the trimeric spike (S) glycoproteins has been developed using hybridoma technology, [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.11.987958], where antibody-producing B-cells developed by mice can be inserted into myeloma cells to produce a hybrid cell line (the hybridoma) that is grown in culture.
The 47D11 clone was able to cross-neutralize SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV2 by a mechanism that is different from receptor binding interference.
The exact mechanism of how this clone neutralizes SARS-CoV-2 and inhibits infection in vitro remains unknown, but a potential mechanism might be antibody induced destabilization of the membrane prefusion structure [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.11.987958; @doi:10.1016/j.cell.2018.12.028].
The ability of this antibody to prevent infection at a feasible dose needs to be validated in vivo, especially since in vitro neutralization effects have been shown to not be reflective of in vivo efficacy [@doi:10.1128/JVI.01603-17].

> Only a week later, a different group reported the isolation of multiple nAbs targeting the RBD of the S glycoprotein from COVID-19 patients [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.21.990770].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only a week later, a different group successfully isolated multiple nAbs targeting the RBD of the S glycoprotein from blood samples taken from COVID-19 patients in China [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.21.990770].
```
That totally makes sense and is obvious now that you say it! I think I had trouble noticing that the last bit of the sentence was the main emphasis because my brain was preoccupied by remembering what the RBD of the S glycoprotein is. Here's an idea but it's definitely not a critical change -- I just added a little more info in the hopes it might help the second half of the sentence more salient!

For MERS-CoV, a combination of multiple neutralizing antibodies targeting different antigenic sites prevented neutralization escape [@doi:10.1128/JVI.02002-17].
They found that the different antibody isolates did not target the same epitopes, suggesting that using them in combination might produce a synergistic effect that prevents viral escape [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.21.990770].
It was also demonstrated that binding affinity of the antibodies does not reflect their capability to compete with ACE2 binding.
Furthermore, no conclusions about correlations between the severity of disease and the ability to produce neutralizing antibodies can be drawn at this point.
Rather, higher neutralizing antibody titers were more frequently found in patients with severe disease.
Correspondingly, another group showed that higher levels of anti-spike IgG were observed in patients that deceased from infection compared to patient that recovered [@doi:10.1172/jci.insight.123158].

###### Spike (S) Neutralizing Antibody Summary 

Results from the SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV epidemics can provide valuable lessons for the design of neutralizing antibodies for the current outbreak.

> The findings for SARS-CoV and MERS can aid in identifying which structures constitute good targets for nAbs, despite the fact that the RBD appears to be distinct between the three coronavirus species.

Author: ```suggestion
The findings for SARS-CoV and MERS can aid in identifying which structures constitute suitable targets for nAbs, despite the fact that the RBD appears to be distinct between the three coronavirus species.
```
